>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
everybody take a deep breath with me.
That was quite a set of stuff
to go through in the course?
I am really please that you
stuck it out with us and
I just want to briefly recap and then
we are gonna close for the day [COUGH].
We started out this course after
motivating why functional programming.
And I wanna reiterate what I
said at the very beginning,
why functional programming?
Because if you can't trust the code that
you're writing you don't understand it and
vice versa.
So we want to strive to write code
that is provable, that is trustable.
And code that makes sense,
that's declarative,
it focuses more on the what
not as much on the how.
That's our goal in over
all programming and
I think functional programming is
a really powerful tool for that.
So we looked at a variety of different
tools that help us with that.
We saw that avoiding side effects creating
pure functions that have no side effects.
And indeed, using point freestyle
to not have as many functions
cluttering up the code, that goes a long
way to setting up the right foundation for
us to approach functional programming.
Composition is how we take all these
different Lego pieces that we build in our
app and
we put them together in very clean ways.
In a particular,
composition is about modeling the flow
of data across a series of operations.
And then we talked about immutability.
It's important to maintain a sense
that values that could mutate, don't
mutate because that helps create more
predictability for every line of code.
Remember, we talked about purity is
really a level of confidence and
that's meta point about all
of functional programming.
The choices that we make about how
we style our code either add to or
detract from that confidence
level that people could have
that they know what that
piece of code is gonna do.
And we should be doing everything we can.
Using every tool we have available to us,
to give them more confidence and
they understand what they're reading.
Closure, one of the most fundamental
concepts in all of programming but
certainly right at the very heart of
what we do in functional programming.
It enables virtually every
other pattern that we did.
You saw closure being used over and
over and over again.
You have to just get natural at it.
And I want you to be able
to answer that question.
When somebody says, hey what's closure?
You should be able to fire right back,
closure is when a function remembers and
as lexical variables when
executed in a different scope.
That's the way to make sure you
have that within your grasp,
you wanna have mastery over that topic.
Lists and
indeed data structure operations,
not only are they just about lists
of numbers as most examples but
we can adapt these operations
like map filters and reduce.
We can adapt them to objects.
We can adapt them to trees.
And indeed, we can adapt them
to our own code base itself.
That the statements within our code can be
a data structure on which we can operate.
And finally, observables allow us to
map all of map there is pun for you.
Now all of what we've learned about
functional programming from the eager
synchronous stuff to
overtime asynchronous.
>> Kyle Simpson: You now have
a pretty good set of climbing tools.
And you've started to make your way
up that cliff face of the mountain.
And the climb may at times be difficult,
it certainly has been for me but
I just wanna encourage you and cheer
you on that this journey is worth it.
And I spent many, many years just running
up against the face of this cliff having
no idea how to climb it, take a few steps
and then fall down and get frustrated.
I hope, and I have endeavored to give
you a better path of that mountain.
Hopefully, that inspires you that this
journey it's finally worth taking.
And [COUGH]
I really do believe
that we should take to
heart that challenge.
The code should be about
communicating with other people.
This is just one set of techniques
that allows us to do that better.
On your journey up the mountain learning
functional programming or indeed any part
of JavaScript If there's anything
that I can do to help you further.
The books,
obviously make sure to check those out.
[INAUDIBLE] You Don't Know JS
book's on GitHub but
also my book of Functional Light
JavaScript check those out.
There's lots of great videos here on
the front end masters platform that
you should check out.
But I can be of any assistance
beyond that, feel free to reach out.
I love to help, so email me and let me
help you with that JavaScript journey.
It's been an honor to be here.
Thanks for sticking it through
all of this tough material and
we'll see you around JavaScript.